# Resources-for-graduate-students

## Writing
1. Please write in active voice and present tense. For a Methods section is may be okay to write in past tense, but try to keep present tense as much as possible.
1. Read the literature to formulate your hypotheses. Graduate students may avoid something that is hard for them, like coding or reading a technical paper, and instead will read to learn specific facts about the study organism. Every thesis is framed within a broader context: population dynamics in seasonal/stochastic environments, population dynamics given different investment strategies in maturation rate, size at maturation, etc. Read papers on these topics in a very general setting (Am Nat, TREE, Ecology Letters are good journals for this) until you can state a specific hypothesis or translate facts into their relevance for your study question: Threshold growth quantities, such as R0, are equivalent in seasonal and non-seasonal environments only when specific conditions are met regarding which stages can reproduce, and which stage-to-stage transitions are possible (Mitchell and Kribs, 2017). While such conditions are met for sea lice population biology, transient, year round dynamics, and growth rates (in addition to threshold quantities) are key to understanding best management practices for sea lice, and so we aim to extend the current theory describing population growth in seasonal environments in these respects.
1. Please see 'How to write a Nature Summary'. Writing an abstract this way asks you to think about the broader relevance of your work and this is often something that doesn't receive enough attention. https://cbs.umn.edu/sites/cbs.umn.edu/files/public/downloads/Annotated_Nature_abstract.pdf
1. Please see 'Scientific paper outline by Kevin Lafferty' <http://parasitology.msi.ucsb.edu/sites/parasitology.msi.ucsb.edu/files/docs/publications/Writing%20a%20Scientific%20Paper.doc> This outline asks the writer to provide paragraphs that show you have summarized the relevant literature on your topic. One component of this is the study system, but this comes after summarizing the literature on the 'big picture' question.
1. Don't write things that aren't true or you aren't going to back up. 'Climate change is biggest problem of our generation': that sentence belongs as the first sentence of a paper describing challenges faced by different generations of humans, and yet, a sentence like that can find its way into a paper that might be titled 'Frogs decline in Northern Michigan correlated with warmer mean summer temperatures' and this paper about frogs is not going to provide the citations and context justify 'Climate change is biggest problem of our generation': the sentence is off-topic, and, as the reader, I can't be asked to believe it unless you are going to give me context and citations. Don't write things like 'Species move north due to climate change' because this is untrue unless you provide qualifiers such as 'in the northern hemisphere' and 'in absence of other environmental gradients such as in precipitation or elevation'.
1. The outline of your paper by deciding what figures you will include.
